---
title: Customer Question of the Week
layout: post
author: Luke Madera
image: Luke.jpg
---

It's been an exciting week at OneRoom. In addition to having the best quarterly meeting I've ever had (going around and sharing our visions for the team and receiving the best welcome letter I've ever received), we're running lots of customer experiments. As with any startup, it's a constant battle of removing risk and uncertainty by testing hypotheses. We have roughly 3 main hypotheses: that we can build a synchronous, interactive online learning technology platform, that we can sign up teachers, and that we can sign up paying students. Scott, Jeff, and the team have done a great job on the technology and teachers and now the big question is on getting students - our paying customers and what makes the business work. So this week we started really drilling down into the student and content question - what do people really want to learn and that is ideal for and unique to our OneRoom platform?

This week we started something new, a company wide (okay, we're only 6 people, but still :) "customer question of the week" where each of us asks 5 people a key question. The idea stems from Steven Blank's excellent book, [4 Steps to the Epiphany](http://www.amazon.com/Four-Steps-Epiphany-Steve-Blank/dp/0989200507). Steven discusses customer development and the idea that even engineers should spend at least 10% of their time in front of real live customers, face to face. And we were planning to run a survey to see what topics people were interested in learning. So we figured why not combine the two? I've been a proponent of continuous and sustainable focus on customer development so having everyone on our team talking to 5 potential customers each week seems like a great process. In general I'm not a huge fan of process and Jeff is great about reminding me that part of our Teal culture is self-management and not mandating anything to anyone. So while this potentially breaks that rule, 5 is a small enough number and customer development seems both important enough and company wide that it deserves a repeated action. Much like our holacratic "recurring actions."

I remember in Founder Institute several years ago, Aaron Patzer of Mint.com gave a talk about customer development and mentioned that BART (and public transit in general) is a phenomenal place to go to do customer research. It's a collection of a bunch of diverse people, all standing around - a captive, fairly representative sample. Perfect! So I set out to ask my 5 questions.

Our first question was "if you could learn anything, what thing(s) would you choose?" I remember when I was a kid I had to sell chocolate candy bars to raise money for my soccer team uniforms. Like anything else, the hardest part is starting. My friend Joe and I walked down the street, intending to go door to door but coming up with one excuse after an another why we'd start at the "next house." One of the greatest fears people have is public speaker and no one wants to be solicitor. Sales is hard. Approaching people is hard. After walking several blocks, including several false starts where we literally got to the door of the house then turned around and walked away, I finally rang a doorbell. An older lady opened the door, we made our "pitch" for buying candy bars and to our surprise, she agreed! Walking away $2 richer and feeling quite proud of ourselves, we got in the groove and about an hour later had sold all of our candy bars. Success!

Fast forward 15 years. I'm not even selling anything this time. I'm older, wiser and more confident now, right? This should be a breeze! Well, the kid Luke door to door candy bar story repeated itself. I told myself one reason after another why this person I could skip and I'd just ask the next one. I came in with big ambitions of talking to 25 to 50 people on the BART ride and ended with 5. Well at least I go to 5. That was the goal for the whole week so at least that meant it should be very feasible for the rest of the team. They only needed 1 person a day. The next day I talked to 3 more people and here's a summary of some of our first responses!

Five of the eight people said language is something they would want to learn. Two focused on practical things - car maintenance, home improvements or cooking for example. Learning a musical instrument (banjo specifically was mentioned), philosophy and anatomy were other ones. An "interactive book club" was what one person wanted to learn. I asked how it would be different than existing book clubs and if he just meant a small group of people connected virtually rather than in person. He saw value in that but also liked the idea of a teacher or facilitator leading it and having virtual mingling before and after the structured class portion. Boxing was mentioned though I'm not sure that's best done online - don't want any broken computer screens :)

One of the more interesting ideas was dancing, specifically partner dancing. One person mentioned she loved to dance but her boyfriend didn't necessarily want to dance in front of other people. But if the two of them could dance together at home and learn from a teacher, she thought he would be much more likely to want to go dancing with her. These kinds of answers are especially valuable for us since part of what we're investigating is what things can be done on online that can NOT be done equally well or better in person. Some other ideas we've discussed are cooking (having your own kitchen) and home improvements (where the teacher has to come to you).

All in all it was a great first experience and I'm excited for our second Customer Question of the Week. Our question next week is likely going to be "What do you want to teach?" as we believe everyone can teach something to someone!